Restructure Compass documents (#5698)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/compass/02-01-components.md

---
title: Components
type: Architecture
---

> ![Components](./assets/components.svg)

Reviewer: something is wrong in that diagram, Kyma wraps compass, mind blow. In architecture, maybe we should first focus of ways how compass component could be deployed, with two modes, single cluster, and master and slaves clusters.

Author: Changed the diagrams so that Compass is placed inside the `Cluster`, not Kyma.

- Manual integration - the administrator manually provides API or Events metadata to Compass. Use this type of integration for simple use-case scenarios as it doesn't support all features.
- Built-in integration - integration with Compass is built in the application.
- Proxy - a highly application-specific proxy component provides the integration.
- Central integration service -  a central service provides integration for the dedicated group of applications. It manages multiple instances of these applications. You can integrate multiple central services to support different types of applications.

## Kyma Runtime

Runtime is any system to which you can apply configuration provided by Compass. Your Runtime must get a trusted connection to Compass. It must also allow for fetching application definitions and using these applications in a given tenant. By default, Compass is integrated with Kyma (Kubernetes), but its usage can also be extended to other platforms, such as CloudFoundry or Serverless.

## Agent

> Agent is an integral part of every Kyma Runtime, which fetches the latest configuration from Compass. In the future releases, Agent will also send information about Runtime health checks to Compass.

Reviewer: Agent is a component that talks with compass with contract provided by compass. Kyma Runtime is a fisrt implementation with such agent.

---
title: Components
type: Architecture
---

> ![Components](./assets/components.svg)

Reviewer 2: ![Screen Shot 2019-10-04 at 13 42 30](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7155799/66205116-d98a6580-e6ac-11e9-947e-d8662f40876e.png)

Please fix the diagram

## Application

Application represents any external system that you want to register to Compass with its API and Event definitions. These are the types of possible integration levels between an Application and Compass:
- Manual integration - the administrator manually provides API or Events metadata to Compass. Use this type of integration for simple use-case scenarios as it doesn't support all features.
- Built-in integration - integration with Compass is built in the Application.
- Proxy - a highly Application-specific proxy component provides the integration.

> - Central integration service -  a central service provides integration for the dedicated group of Applications across multiple tenants. It manages multiple instances of the given Application type. You can integrate multiple central services to support different types of Applications.

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't we call it Integration System?

## Kyma Runtime

Runtime is a system to which you can apply configuration provided by Compass. Your Runtime must get a trusted connection to Compass. It must also allow for fetching Application definitions and using these Applications in one-tenant scope. By default, Compass is integrated with Kyma (Kubernetes), but its usage can also be extended to other platforms, such as CloudFoundry or Serverless.

## Agent

> Agent is an integral part of every Kyma Runtime, which fetches the latest configuration from Compass. In the future releases, Agent will:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Agent is an integral part of every Kyma Runtime, and it fetches the latest configuration from Compass. In the future releases, Agent will:
```

> - Provide Runtime specific information that will be displayed in Compass UI, such as Runtime UI URL

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Provide Runtime specific information that will be displayed in the Compass UI, such as Runtime UI URL
```

- Provide Compass with Runtime configuration, such as Event Gateway URL, that should be passed to an Application
- Send Runtime health checks to Compass

## Cockpit

Cockpit is a UI that calls Compass APIs. This component is interchangeable.

## Gateway

Gateway proxies the tenant's incoming requests to the Director component. All communication, whether it comes from an Application or other external components, flows through Gateway.

## Connector

Connector establishes trust between Applications and Runtimes. Currently, only client certificates are supported.

## Director

> Director handles the process of registering Applications and Runtimes. It also requests Application webhook APIs for credentials and exposes health information about Runtimes. This component has access to the storage.

Reviewer 2: the process of **managing** Applications and Runtimes?

Because Director provides CRUD operations
